	Installation of CYR-RFX fonts
        =============================

	I. Overview
        ===========

The installation procedure is quite simple: first, you should unpack
the files to some location, and than instruct the X-server to use them
(i.e. add the directories to server's font path).

On both stages you have two alternatives.  First, the installation
method: system-wide (if you are administrator) or personal (if you just
have an account somewhere and wish to use these fonts).  Second, you
may wish for new fonts to take precedence over standard fonts in
wildcard- and alias-matching.

In all the examples below, replace "ENCODING" with an actual encoding
you are installing ("koi8-1", "iso8859-15", etc.).


	II. System-wide installation
        ============================

0. Become root ;-)

1. First, extract the tarball into <XRoot>/lib/X11/fonts/ (in case of X11R6
<XRoot> is usually /usr/X11R6, and /usr/openwin in Sun OpenWindows):

	gzip -dc cyr-rfx_ENCODING-1.0.tgz | tar xf - -C /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/

The .tgz files are already archived with user=root and uid=root, but if
you are paranoid (as I am ;), the command

	chown -R 0:0 /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING

will help.

2. Second, the X server should be instructed to pick the fonts on
startup. I.e. the new directories should be added the the server's
"font path" list.

There are two cases.

2a. If your X-server renders the fonts itself, this list is described
by "FontPath" directives in X-server config file (if using XFree86
servers on IntelX86, it is usually /etc/X11/XF86Config or
/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/XF86Config).

In this case just add two "FontPath" directives just before or after
the existing list, so that it will look like

	FontPath    "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/misc/"
	FontPath    "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/75dpi/"
	FontPath    "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc/"
	FontPath    "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Type1/"
	. . .

(two first lines were added).

2b. If your X-server uses a font-server (xfs) to render the fonts, the
only "FontPath" directive will probably point to "unix/:-1" (as it is
in RedHat Linux 6.x).  In this case the font list is described with a
"catalogue=" directive in the xfs' config file (usually
/etc/X11/fs/config or /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fs/config).

So, just add two entries to "catalogue=" (don't forget about separating
commas!), so that it will look like

	catalogue=/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/misc,
		/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/75dpi/,
		/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc,
		/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi,
		. . .

In both cases, the new configuration will be used after restart. (Or
you can use new fonts immediately by manually typing "xset +fp ..." in
the first case, or send a SIGHUP to xfs and typing "xset fp rehash" in
the second case.)


	III. Personal installation
        ==========================

1. First, extract the tarball somewhere into your home-dir.  For
example, to use ~/fonts/, do the following:

	mkdir ~/fonts
	gzip -dc cyr-rfx_ENCODING-1.0.tgz | tar xf - -C ~/fonts/

2. Second, new fonts' directories should be added to X-server's "font
path" on startup.  It can be achieved by adding the commands

	xset +fp ~/fonts/ENCODING/misc
	xset +fp ~/fonts/ENCODING/75dpi

to the beginning of one of X startup files -- usually ~/.xinitrc,
~/.Xclients or ~/.xsession.  Use "xset fp+" instead of "xset +fp" to
add directories to the end of "font path" instead of the beginning.


	IV. Common notes
        ================

1. You may wish to compress the fonts in order to reduce the amount of
occupied disk space.  To do so, just "gzip" (or "compress") all the
.pcf files in each directory and than redo the fonts.dir by running
"mkfontdir".

For example, to compress the fonts in /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/koi8-1/75dpi,
run the following commands:

	gzip /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/koi8-1/75dpi/*.pcf
	mkfontdir /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/koi8-1/75dpi


2. You may wish for new fonts to take precedence over standard fonts
(for example, for most programs use koi8 fonts instead of latin, or to
use iso8859-15 fonts instead of iso8859-1).  In this case, place new
directories at the beginning of "font path" list, otherwise place them
at the end.


3. You may wish to play with ":unscaled" attribute in the recent
versions of XFree86 (>=3.1.2).

In this case you should add both directories to "font path" twice: once
as "dir:unscaled", and than (after the scaled-fonts directories) as
usual. I.e., the whole font path will probably look like

	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/misc:unscaled
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc:unscaled
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/75dpi:unscaled
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi:unscaled
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/misc
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Type1
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ENCODING/75dpi
	/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi

______________________________________________________________________
	(C) 2000 Dmitry Bolkhovityanov <bolkhov@inp.nsk.su>
